depends/README.md, before:

### Usage

To build dependencies for the current arch+OS:

    make

To build for another arch/OS:

    make HOST=host-platform-triplet

For example:

    make HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32 -j4

**Bitcoin Core's `configure` script by default will ignore the depends output.** In
order for it to pick up libraries, tools, and settings from the depends build,
you must set the `CONFIG_SITE` environment variable to point to a `config.site` settings file.
In the above example, a file named `depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site` will be
created. To use it during compilation:

    CONFIG_SITE=$PWD/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site ./configure

The default install prefix when using `config.site` is `--prefix=depends/<host-platform-triplet>`,
so depends build outputs will be installed in that location.

Common `host-platform-triplet`s for cross compilation are:

- `i686-pc-linux-gnu` for Linux 32 bit
- `x86_64-pc-linux-gnu` for x86 Linux
- `x86_64-w64-mingw32` for Win64
- `x86_64-apple-darwin18` for macOS
- `arm-linux-gnueabihf` for Linux ARM 32 bit
- `aarch64-linux-gnu` for Linux ARM 64 bit
- `powerpc64-linux-gnu` for Linux POWER 64-bit (big endian)
- `powerpc64le-linux-gnu` for Linux POWER 64-bit (little endian)
- `riscv32-linux-gnu` for Linux RISC-V 32 bit
- `riscv64-linux-gnu` for Linux RISC-V 64 bit
- `s390x-linux-gnu` for Linux S390X
- `armv7a-linux-android` for Android ARM 32 bit
- `aarch64-linux-android` for Android ARM 64 bit
- `i686-linux-android` for Android x86 32 bit
- `x86_64-linux-android` for Android x86 64 bit

The paths are automatically configured and no other options are needed unless targeting [Android](#Android).

### Install the required dependencies: Ubuntu & Debian

#### For macOS cross compilation

    sudo apt-get install curl librsvg2-bin libtiff-tools bsdmainutils cmake imagemagick libz-dev python3-setuptools libtinfo5 xorriso

Note: You must obtain the macOS SDK before proceeding with a cross-compile.
Under the depends directory, create a subdirectory named `SDKs`.
Then, place the extracted SDK under this new directory.
For more information, see [SDK Extraction](../contrib/macdeploy/README.md#sdk-extraction).

#### For Win64 cross compilation

- see [build-windows.md](../doc/build-windows.md#cross-compilation-for-ubuntu-and-windows-subsystem-for-linux)

#### For linux (including i386, ARM) cross compilation

Common linux dependencies:

    sudo apt-get install make automake cmake curl g++-multilib libtool binutils-gold bsdmainutils pkg-config python3 patch bison

For linux ARM cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-arm-linux-gnueabihf binutils-arm-linux-gnueabihf

For linux AARCH64 cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-aarch64-linux-gnu binutils-aarch64-linux-gnu

For linux POWER 64-bit cross compilation (there are no packages for 32-bit):

    sudo apt-get install g++-powerpc64-linux-gnu binutils-powerpc64-linux-gnu g++-powerpc64le-linux-gnu binutils-powerpc64le-linux-gnu

For linux RISC-V 64-bit cross compilation (there are no packages for 32-bit):

    sudo apt-get install g++-riscv64-linux-gnu binutils-riscv64-linux-gnu

RISC-V known issue: gcc-7.3.0 and gcc-7.3.1 result in a broken `test_bitcoin` executable (see https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13543),
this is apparently fixed in gcc-8.1.0.

For linux S390X cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-s390x-linux-gnu binutils-s390x-linux-gnu

### Dependency Options

The following can be set when running make: `make FOO=bar`

- `SOURCES_PATH`: Downloaded sources will be placed here
- `BASE_CACHE`: Built packages will be placed here
- `SDK_PATH`: Path where SDKs can be found (used by macOS)
- `FALLBACK_DOWNLOAD_PATH`: If a source file can't be fetched, try here before giving up
- `NO_QT`: Don't download/build/cache Qt and its dependencies
- `NO_QR`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling qrencode
- `NO_ZMQ`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling ZeroMQ
- `NO_WALLET`: Don't download/build/cache libs needed to enable the wallet
- `NO_BDB`: Don't download/build/cache BerkeleyDB
- `NO_SQLITE`: Don't download/build/cache SQLite
- `NO_UPNP`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling UPnP
- `NO_NATPMP`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling NAT-PMP</dd>
- `ALLOW_HOST_PACKAGES`: Packages that are missed in dependencies (due to `NO_*` option or
  build script logic) are searched for among the host system packages using
  `pkg-config`. It allows building with packages of other (newer) versions
- `MULTIPROCESS`: Build libmultiprocess (experimental, requires CMake)
- `DEBUG`: Disable some optimizations and enable more runtime checking
- `HOST_ID_SALT`: Optional salt to use when generating host package ids
- `BUILD_ID_SALT`: Optional salt to use when generating build package ids
- `FORCE_USE_SYSTEM_CLANG`: (EXPERTS ONLY) When cross-compiling for macOS, use Clang found in the
  system's `$PATH` rather than the default prebuilt release of Clang
  from llvm.org. Clang 8 or later is required.

If some packages are not built, for example `make NO_WALLET=1`, the appropriate
options will be passed to bitcoin's configure. In this case, `--disable-wallet`.

### Additional targets

    download: run 'make download' to fetch all sources without building them
    download-osx: run 'make download-osx' to fetch all sources needed for macOS builds
    download-win: run 'make download-win' to fetch all sources needed for win builds
    download-linux: run 'make download-linux' to fetch all sources needed for linux builds


### Android

Before proceeding with an Android build one needs to get the [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio) and use the "SDK Manager" tool to download the NDK and one or more "Platform packages" (these are Android versions and have a corresponding API level).
In order to build `ANDROID_API_LEVEL` (API level corresponding to the Android version targeted, e.g. Android 9.0 Pie is 28 and its "Platform package" needs to be available) and `ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN_BIN` (path to toolchain binaries depending on the platform the build is being performed on) need to be set.

API levels from 24 to 29 have been tested to work.

If the build includes Qt, environment variables `ANDROID_SDK` and `ANDROID_NDK` need to be set as well but can otherwise be omitted.
This is an example command for a default build with no disabled dependencies:

    ANDROID_SDK=/home/user/Android/Sdk ANDROID_NDK=/home/user/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle make HOST=aarch64-linux-android ANDROID_API_LEVEL=28 ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN_BIN=/home/user/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle/toolchains/llvm/prebuilt/linux-x86_64/bin

### Other documentation

- [description.md](description.md): General description of the depends system
- [packages.md](packages.md): Steps for adding packages

Commit message:

doc: Install Rosetta on M1-macOS for qt in depends

depends/README.md, after:

### Usage

To build dependencies for the current arch+OS:

    make

To build for another arch/OS:

    make HOST=host-platform-triplet

For example:

    make HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32 -j4

**Bitcoin Core's `configure` script by default will ignore the depends output.** In
order for it to pick up libraries, tools, and settings from the depends build,
you must set the `CONFIG_SITE` environment variable to point to a `config.site` settings file.
In the above example, a file named `depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site` will be
created. To use it during compilation:

    CONFIG_SITE=$PWD/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site ./configure

The default install prefix when using `config.site` is `--prefix=depends/<host-platform-triplet>`,
so depends build outputs will be installed in that location.

Common `host-platform-triplet`s for cross compilation are:

- `i686-pc-linux-gnu` for Linux 32 bit
- `x86_64-pc-linux-gnu` for x86 Linux
- `x86_64-w64-mingw32` for Win64
- `x86_64-apple-darwin18` for macOS
- `arm-linux-gnueabihf` for Linux ARM 32 bit
- `aarch64-linux-gnu` for Linux ARM 64 bit
- `powerpc64-linux-gnu` for Linux POWER 64-bit (big endian)
- `powerpc64le-linux-gnu` for Linux POWER 64-bit (little endian)
- `riscv32-linux-gnu` for Linux RISC-V 32 bit
- `riscv64-linux-gnu` for Linux RISC-V 64 bit
- `s390x-linux-gnu` for Linux S390X
- `armv7a-linux-android` for Android ARM 32 bit
- `aarch64-linux-android` for Android ARM 64 bit
- `i686-linux-android` for Android x86 32 bit
- `x86_64-linux-android` for Android x86 64 bit

The paths are automatically configured and no other options are needed unless targeting [Android](#Android).

### Install the required dependencies: Ubuntu & Debian

#### For macOS cross compilation

    sudo apt-get install curl librsvg2-bin libtiff-tools bsdmainutils cmake imagemagick libz-dev python3-setuptools libtinfo5 xorriso

Note: You must obtain the macOS SDK before proceeding with a cross-compile.
Under the depends directory, create a subdirectory named `SDKs`.
Then, place the extracted SDK under this new directory.
For more information, see [SDK Extraction](../contrib/macdeploy/README.md#sdk-extraction).

#### For Win64 cross compilation

- see [build-windows.md](../doc/build-windows.md#cross-compilation-for-ubuntu-and-windows-subsystem-for-linux)

#### For linux (including i386, ARM) cross compilation

Common linux dependencies:

    sudo apt-get install make automake cmake curl g++-multilib libtool binutils-gold bsdmainutils pkg-config python3 patch bison

For linux ARM cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-arm-linux-gnueabihf binutils-arm-linux-gnueabihf

For linux AARCH64 cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-aarch64-linux-gnu binutils-aarch64-linux-gnu

For linux POWER 64-bit cross compilation (there are no packages for 32-bit):

    sudo apt-get install g++-powerpc64-linux-gnu binutils-powerpc64-linux-gnu g++-powerpc64le-linux-gnu binutils-powerpc64le-linux-gnu

For linux RISC-V 64-bit cross compilation (there are no packages for 32-bit):

    sudo apt-get install g++-riscv64-linux-gnu binutils-riscv64-linux-gnu

RISC-V known issue: gcc-7.3.0 and gcc-7.3.1 result in a broken `test_bitcoin` executable (see https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13543),
this is apparently fixed in gcc-8.1.0.

For linux S390X cross compilation:

    sudo apt-get install g++-s390x-linux-gnu binutils-s390x-linux-gnu

### Install the required dependencies: M1-based macOS

To be able to build the `qt` package, ensure that Rosetta 2 is installed:

```
softwareupdate --install-rosetta
```

### Dependency Options

The following can be set when running make: `make FOO=bar`

- `SOURCES_PATH`: Downloaded sources will be placed here
- `BASE_CACHE`: Built packages will be placed here
- `SDK_PATH`: Path where SDKs can be found (used by macOS)
- `FALLBACK_DOWNLOAD_PATH`: If a source file can't be fetched, try here before giving up
- `NO_QT`: Don't download/build/cache Qt and its dependencies
- `NO_QR`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling qrencode
- `NO_ZMQ`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling ZeroMQ
- `NO_WALLET`: Don't download/build/cache libs needed to enable the wallet
- `NO_BDB`: Don't download/build/cache BerkeleyDB
- `NO_SQLITE`: Don't download/build/cache SQLite
- `NO_UPNP`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling UPnP
- `NO_NATPMP`: Don't download/build/cache packages needed for enabling NAT-PMP</dd>
- `ALLOW_HOST_PACKAGES`: Packages that are missed in dependencies (due to `NO_*` option or
  build script logic) are searched for among the host system packages using
  `pkg-config`. It allows building with packages of other (newer) versions
- `MULTIPROCESS`: Build libmultiprocess (experimental, requires CMake)
- `DEBUG`: Disable some optimizations and enable more runtime checking
- `HOST_ID_SALT`: Optional salt to use when generating host package ids
- `BUILD_ID_SALT`: Optional salt to use when generating build package ids
- `FORCE_USE_SYSTEM_CLANG`: (EXPERTS ONLY) When cross-compiling for macOS, use Clang found in the
  system's `$PATH` rather than the default prebuilt release of Clang
  from llvm.org. Clang 8 or later is required.

If some packages are not built, for example `make NO_WALLET=1`, the appropriate
options will be passed to bitcoin's configure. In this case, `--disable-wallet`.

### Additional targets

    download: run 'make download' to fetch all sources without building them
    download-osx: run 'make download-osx' to fetch all sources needed for macOS builds
    download-win: run 'make download-win' to fetch all sources needed for win builds
    download-linux: run 'make download-linux' to fetch all sources needed for linux builds


### Android

Before proceeding with an Android build one needs to get the [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio) and use the "SDK Manager" tool to download the NDK and one or more "Platform packages" (these are Android versions and have a corresponding API level).
In order to build `ANDROID_API_LEVEL` (API level corresponding to the Android version targeted, e.g. Android 9.0 Pie is 28 and its "Platform package" needs to be available) and `ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN_BIN` (path to toolchain binaries depending on the platform the build is being performed on) need to be set.

API levels from 24 to 29 have been tested to work.

If the build includes Qt, environment variables `ANDROID_SDK` and `ANDROID_NDK` need to be set as well but can otherwise be omitted.
This is an example command for a default build with no disabled dependencies:

    ANDROID_SDK=/home/user/Android/Sdk ANDROID_NDK=/home/user/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle make HOST=aarch64-linux-android ANDROID_API_LEVEL=28 ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN_BIN=/home/user/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle/toolchains/llvm/prebuilt/linux-x86_64/bin

### Other documentation

- [description.md](description.md): General description of the depends system
- [packages.md](packages.md): Steps for adding packages
